FIRST YEAR UG: B.TECH COMPUTER ENGINEERING REVISION: FRCRCE-- Effective from Academic Year - Board of Studies Approval: // Academic Council Approval:// Dean Academics HOD (Computer) Principal Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Preamble: Greetings and congratulations to all the education partners Fr Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering for getting autonomous status to the college from the year -. University Grant Commission vide letter No. F. -/(AC-Policy) dated 23rd Nov conferred the autonomous status to Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering, Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (West), Mumbai affiliated to University of Mumbai for a period of years from the academic year - to - as per clause . of the UGC (Conferment of Autonomous Status Upon Colleges and Measures for Maintenance of Standards in Autonomous Colleges) Regulations,. We look towards autonomy as a great opportunity to design and implement curriculum sensitive to needs of Learner, Indian Society and Industries. Government of Maharashtra has also directed Autonomous Colleges to revise their curriculum in line with National Education Policy (NEP) through Government Resolution dated 4th July . We commit to ourselves to the effective implementation of UGC Regulations and NEP in its spirit. Based on recent recommendations of the GR, we are pleased to offer our holistic curriculum for -, a “H-Tree Model” of Engineering Education. A unique “H-Tree Model” of Engineering Education Curriculum is carefully designed to systematically develop IQ (Intelligence Quotient), PQ (Physical Quotient), EQ (Emotional Quotient) and SQ (Spiritual Quotient) of a learner. This curriculum aims at the development of an all-rounded personality with holistic approach to education in which learner receives % teacher-led learning, % peer learning, % self-learning and % experiential learning. The curriculum model is outcome based that focuses on learning by doing. Curriculum is designed to provide multiple learning opportunities for students to acquire and demonstrate competencies for rewarding careers. It ensures multiple choices to leaner acquiring skills through systematic planning. It has verticals aligned to GR recommendations with strong science, and mathematics foundation and program core, sequel of electives, Multidisciplinary Minor courses, humanities & management courses and sufficient experiential learning through projects and semester-long industry / research internship along with employable skill-based courses. Learner gets an opportunity to acquire skills through NSDC aligned courses during summer vacations. Learner also gets additional option to choose the kind of degree i.e. Honors or Double Minor or Honors with Research. Various steps are taken to transform teaching learning process to make learning a joyful experience for students. We believe that this curriculum will raise the bar of academic standards with the active involvement and cooperation from students, academic and administrative units. Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Curriculum Structure for UG Programs at Fr CRCE w.e.f. A.Y. - Credit Specification: ❖ Theory: credit= to hrs of teaching ❖ Lab: Credit= to hrs of lab work ❖ Studio Activities: Credit= to hrs of creative activities ❖ Workshop Based Activities: Credit= to hrs of hands-on activities related to vocation/professional practice/skill based ❖ Seminar/Group Discussion: Credit= to hrs of participation ❖ Internship: Credit=Per weeks OR to hrs of engagement ❖ Field Based Learning/Practices: Credit= to hrs of learning activities ❖ Community Engagement Projects: Credit= to hrs of contact time along with to hrs of activities preparation, report writing, independent reading etc. Nomenclature of the courses in the curriculum Abbreviation Title BSESC Basic Science & Engineering Science Courses PCPEC Program Core and Program Elective Courses MDC Multidisciplinary Courses SC Skill Courses HSSM Humanities, Social Sciences and Management EL Experiential Learning LLC Liberal Learning Courses BSC Basic Science Courses ESC Engineering Science Courses PCC Program Core Courses PEC Program Elective Courses MDM Multidisciplinary Minor OE Open Elective VSEC Vocational and Skill Enhancement Course VSC Vocational Skill Courses SEC Skill Enhancement Courses AEC Ability Enhancement Course EEMC Entrepreneurship, Economics and Management Course IKS Indian Knowledge System VEC Value Education RM Research Methodologies CEFP Community Engagement or Field Project ELC Experiential Learning Courses Project INT Internship CC Cocurricular Courses HMM Honors and Multidisciplinary Minor DM Double Minor RMM Research and Multidisciplinary Minor Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Credit requirements for four different options of the Degrees: Degree/SEM I II III IV V VI VII VIII Total B.Tech with Multidisciplinary Minor B.Tech with Honors and Multidisciplinary Minor +* +* +* +* +* +* +* B.Tech with Double Minor (Multidisciplinary & Specialisation Minor) +* +* +* +* +* +* +* B.Tech with Research and Multidisciplinary Minor +* +* +* +* +*+* *Optional Credits . Learners who earn a minimum of total credits will be awarded “B.Tech in Engg. /Tech. with Multidisciplinary Minor” degree. . Learners will have the following options to earn B. Tech. in Engg. /Tech. degree in a. Honors and Multidisciplinary Minor b. Major Engg./Tech Discipline with Double Minor (Multidisciplinary and Specialization Minor) c. Honors with Research and Multidisciplinary Minor There will be credit course ‘Introduction to Emerging Technologies’ in SEM-II introducing various emerging technologies along with basics of various tracks under honors, multidisciplinary, minor and research domain helping student in decision making for further options of learning. a) B.Tech in Engg./ Tech-Honors and Multidisciplinary Minor (with additional credits): + + (SEM-II)= Min Credits There will be five courses ( credits each), one in each semester starting from the 3rd semester which will be based on major discipline of study. In 8th semester students will complete -week courses ( credit) from SWAYAM (The list of courses will be floated by the institute). For honors degree all courses and papers will be in the same Engg./Tech discipline. (Admission eligibility min CGPA=. after First year) b) Major Engg./Tech Discipline with Double Minor (Multidisciplinary and Specialization Minor) (additional credits): ++ (SEM-II)= Min Credits. There will be five courses ( credits each), one in each semester starting from the 3rd semester which will be from another engineering discipline or emerging areas of specialisation. In 8th semester students will complete -week courses ( credit) from SWAYAM (The list of courses will be floated by the institute). For Double Minor degree all courses and papers will be from another Engg./ Tech Discipline/Emerging areas specialisation. (Admission eligibility min CGPA=. after First year) c) B.Tech in Engg./ Tech.- Honors with Research and Multidisciplinary Minor (additional credits by research): ++ (SEM-II)= Min Credits. (Admission eligibility min CGPA=. after First and should maintain CGPA=. after Third year) Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Students are expected to complete a -months research internship in summer after 2nd year ( credits), 3rd year ( credits) and work towards research project in summer after 8th Sem ( credits). SWAYAM courses of -week ( credits each) must be completed in semesters and . .Courses offered during internship semester shall be in online mode . Learner can earn the certificate/Diploma/Degree based on his/her exit from the program as follows. College shall explore feasibility to offer NSDC aligned skill based courses to the learners: a. UG Certificate: After a one-year ( credits to be earned) and -credits summer workshop/vocational courses/internship b. UG Diploma: After two-years ( credits to be earned) and -credits summer workshop/vocational courses/internship/Project c. B. Voc.: After three-years ( credits to be earned) and -credits summer workshop/vocational courses/internship/Project . Technical support team for registration of Academic Bank of Credits (ABC), registration of elective/optional courses, registration of online courses, registration for degree options etc. will be under supervision of Dean Academics. Salient Features of Curriculum: ✓ Framed as per Government Resolution dated 4th July in line with National Education Policy (NEP) . ✓ Minimum choice-based credit structure with options of Degrees earning additional credits ✓ Unique ‘H-Tree’ Model of Curriculum: Hybrid model for holistic development with happy learning environment having bridge connecting verticals providing unique path for each learner for - dimensional growth, Life Long Learning, multiple entry-exit, inclusive model indicating equal distribution of central resources ✓ More emphasis on laboratory based and experiential learning ✓ More weightage to continuous assessment to reduce examination stress ✓ Mandatory Semester-long internship, courses with emotional & spiritual learning and skill-based learning aligned with NSDC framework ✓ Well balanced curriculum to attain Program Outcomes and skills of 21st century learner ✓ Curriculum is designed to create excitement among learners for education through stories, activities, collaboration, hackathon, contest, case studies, creative art etc. ✓ Curriculum is designed to make graduates responsible citizens of country with future ready skills to handle challenges of 21st Century Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) UG Computer Engineering Program: SEM-I Course Code Course Vertical Sub- Vertical Course Name Contact Hours Credits Total Points Total BSC11CE01 BSESC BSC Matrices and Differential Calculus - - BSC11CE04 BSESC BSC Engineering Chemistry PR - - ESC11CE03 BSESC ESC Programming Fundamentals PR - - ESC11CE02 BSESC ESC Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering PR - - PCC11CE01 PCPEC PCC Innovation and Design Thinking PR - - PCC11CE04 PCPEC PCC Essential Psychomotor Skills for Engineers PR - - VSE11CE02 SC VSEC Creative Coding in Python PR - - IKS11CE01 HSSM IKS Indian Knowledge System - - LLCXX LLC CC One Course from CC PR - - - Total ::= - SEM-II Course Code Course Vertical Sub- Vertical Course Name Contact Hours Credits Total Points Total BSC11CE03 BSESC BSC Integral Calculus and Probability Theory - - BSC11CE02 BSESC BSC Engineering Physics PR - - ESC11CE02 BSESC ESC Engineering Graphics PR - - ESC11CE04 BSESC ESC Human Health Systems - - PCC11CE03 PCPEC PCC Digital Electronics PR - - PCC11CE02 PCPEC PCC Essential Computing Skills for Engineers PR - - VSE11CE01 SC VSEC Measuring Instruments and Testing Tools PR - - AEC11CE01 HSSM AEC Art of Communication - - PR LLCXX LLC CC One Course from CC PR - - - HMM11CE01 HMM/DM/ RMM HMM/DM/ RMM Introduction to Emerging Technologies * Total ::= - - - +* * Introduced as first course for HMM/DM/RMM SEM-III Course Code Course Vertical Sub- Vertical Course Name Contact Hours Credits Total Points Total BSC12CE05 BSESC BSC Discrete Mathematics and Graph Theory - - PCC12CE05 PCPEC PCC Computer Organization and Architecture PCC12CE06 PCPEC PCC Data Structures PR - - PCC12CE07 PCPEC PCC Object Oriented Programming with JAVA PR - - MDM01 MDC MDM Law for Engineers - - OECE1X MDC OE Open Elective- PR - - OECE1X MDC OE Open Elective- PR - - EEM12CE01 HSSM EEMC Financial Planning, Taxation and Investment -- -- VEC12CE01 HSSM VEC Human Values and Professional Ethics - - PR CEP12CE01 EL CEFP Community Engagement Project - - LLCXX LLC CC One Course from CC PR - - - HMM12CE02/ DMC12XX02 HMM/ DM HMM/ DM Honors/Double Minor Course * - - Total ::= ::=* - - +* - +* Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) SEM-IV Course Code Course Vertical Sub- Vertical Course Name Contact Hours Credits Total Points Total BSC12EC06 BSESC BSC Linear Algebra and business statistics - - PCC12CE08 PCPEC PCC Database Management Systems PR - - PCC12CE09 PCPEC PCC Analysis of Algorithm PR - - PCC12CE010 PCPEC PCC Advanced JAVA Programming PR - - MDM02 MDC MDM Emerging Technology and Law - - OECE2X MDC OE Open Elective- PR - - VSE12CE03 SC VSEC Full Stack Development PR - - AEC12CE02X HSSM AEC Modern Indian Language - - EEM12CE02 HSSM EEMC Technology Entrepreneurship - - VEC12CE02 HSSM VEC Technology Innovation for Sustainable Development - - PR LLCXX LLC CC One Course from CC PR - - - HMM12CE03/ DMC12XX03 HMM/DM HMM/DM Honors/Double Minor Course * - - RMM12CE01 RMM RMM Research Internship in Summer - - - - - - - * Total ::= ::=* - - +* - +*/* SEM-V Course Code Course Vertical Sub- Vertical Course Name Contact Hours Credits Total Points Total PCC13CE11 PCPEC PCC Cryptography and System Security PR - - PCC13CE12 PCPEC PCC Computer Network PR - - PCC13CE13 PCPEC PCC Operating System with System Programming PR - - PCC13CE14 PCPEC PCC Data Warehousing and Mining Lab PR - - PEC13CEXX PCPEC PEC Program Elective Course - - PEC13CEXX PCPEC PEC Program Elective Lab PR - - MDM03 MDC MDM Health, Wellness and Psychology - - MDM04 MDC MDM Public Relations and Corporate Communication - - OECE3X MDC OE Open Elective- PR - - HMM13CE04/ DMC12XX04 HMM/DM HMM/DM Honors/Double Minor Course * - - Total ::= ::=* - - +* - +* SEM-VI Course Code Course Vertical Sub- Vertical Course Name Contact Hours Credits Total Points Total PCC13CE15 PCPEC PCC Theory of Computer Science and Compiler Construction PR - - PCC13CE16 PCPEC PCC Software Engineering PR - - PCC13CE17 PCPEC PCC Artificial Intelligence Lab PR - - PCC13CE18 PCPEC PCC Software Testing and Quality Assurance Lab PR - - PEC13CEXX PCPEC PEC Program Elective Course - - PEC13CEXX PCPEC PEC Program Elective Course - - PEC13CEXX PCPEC PEC Program Elective Lab PR - - PEC13CEXX PCPEC PEC Program Elective Lab PR - - MDM05 MDC MDM Emotional and Spiritual Intelligence - - VSE13CE04 SC VSEC Cloud Computing Lab PR - - HMM13CE05/ DMC12XX05 HMM/DM HMM/DM Honors/Double Minor Course * - - RMM13CE02 RMM RMM Research Internship in Summer - - - - - - - * Total ::= ::=* - - +* - +*/* Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) SEM-VII Course Code Course Vertical Sub-Vertical Course Name Contact Hours Credits Total Points Total PCC14CE19 PCPEC PCC Distributed Computing PR - - PCC14CE20 PCPEC PCC DevOps Lab PR - - PEC14CEXX PCPEC PEC Program Elective Course - - PEC14CEXX PCPEC PEC Program Elective Course - - MDM06 MDC MDM Principles of Management - - RMC14CE01 EL RM Essentials of Research Methodology - - RMC14CE02 EL RM Intellectual Property Rights - - EL PR Project PR - - HMM14CE06/ DMC12XX06 HMM/DM HMM/DM Honors/Double Minor Course * - - Total ::= ::=* - - +* - +* SEM-VIII Course Code Course Vertical Sub- Vertical Course Name Contact Hours Credits Total Points Total PCC14CE21 PCPEC PCC Program Core Course SWAYAM As Per SWAYAM PCC14CE22 PCPEC PCC Program Core Course SWAYAM As Per SWAYAM PCC14CEXX PCPEC PEC Program Elective Course SWAYAM As Per SWAYAM MDM07 MDC MDM One MDM Course SWAYAM As Per SWAYAM INT14CE01 EL INT Semester long Internship PR - hrs As Per Internship Manual HMM14CE07/ DMC12XX07 HMM/DM HMM/DM One SWAYAM Course SWAYAM As Per SWAYAM * * RMM14CE03 RMM RMM Two SWAYAM courses (sem7/) + Project after 8th Sem in Summer SWAYAM As Per SWAYAM * * Total - +*/* # Online course Credit= Week course from SWAYAM can be taken in SEM or SEM VIII # Online min week course from SWAYAM can be taken in SEM or SEM VIII to complete credit course (Combination of two -week credit courses shall be allowed with prior approval) * Online min week course from SWAYAM can be taken in SEM or SEM VIII to complete credit course Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) List of Program Elective Courses: Elective : Track A V Blockchain Basics (PEC) Blockchain Lab (PECL) VI Decentralized Finance (PEC) Decentralized App Development Lab Track B V AI and Machine Learning (PEC) Machine Learning Lab (PECL) VI Deep Learning & Reinforcement Learning(PEC) Deep Learning Lab (PECL) Track C V Computer Graphics (PE) Computer Graphics Lab (PECL) VI Computer Vision (PEC) Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality Lab (PECL) Track D V Ethical Hacking (PEC) Penetration Testing (PECL) VI Digital Forensics (PEC) Digital Forensics Lab (PECL) Elective : (Sem VI) Any one course and corresponding lab from below- Cyber Security Image Processing System administration Block chain Technology Machine Learning and Deep Learning UI/UX Design Open-Source Intelligence and Threat Intelligence Lab Image Processing Lab Advanced UNIX Programming lab Block chain Lab Machine Learning and Deep Learning Lab UI/UX Design lab SEM- VII: Any two theory courses (ONE from each group) Group Group2 Digital Business management Mobile and wireless Computing Generative AI Computer Vision Social Media Analytics Quantum Computing Information Retrieval Geographical Information Systems Explainable AI GPU Computing Open Electives offered to CE students: . SEM-III Any two: Signal Processing and Communication Fundamentals OR Verilog Programming OR Basic Manufacturing Processes OR Renewable Energy System OR Industrial Engineering . SEM-IV Any one: Microprocessor OR Embedded Systems OR Automation and Robotics OR Optimization Techniques . SEM-V Any one: Advanced Microprocessor OR IoT OR E-Vehicle OR Supply Chain Management OR Design of Experiments OR 3D Printing Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) List of Multi-Disciplinary Minor Courses (MDM): . SEM-III: Law for Engineers . SEM-IV: Emerging Technology and Law . SEM-V: Public Relations and Corporate Communication . SEM-V: Health, Wellness and Psychology . SEM-VI: Emotional and Spiritual Intelligence . SEM-VII: Principles of Management . SEM-VIII: From SWAYAM (To be approved by Dean Academics) List of Modern Indian Language ( credit) (AEC): • AEC12CE021 Sanskrit for Beginners • AEC12CE022 Telugu for Beginners • AEC12CE023 Kannada for Beginners • AEC12CE024 Tamil for Beginners Indicative List of Cocurricular Courses (CC): (Min to Max students in each course: Except Social Activities). Will be offered based on student choice and availability of resources to conduct a course. LLC01. Culinary Arts: Foundations of Cooking LLC02. Indian Aesthetics LLC03. Sketching LLC04. Personality Development and People Management LLC05. Work Life Balance LLC06. Art of Living LLC07. Yoga Vidya LLC08. First Aid and Self Defence LLC09. Fire Safety and Electronic Security LLC010. Sports Technology LLC011. Athletics LLC012. Aerobics and Fitness LLC013. Study of Dance Forms LLC014. Introduction to Dramatics: Exploring Theatre Arts LLC015. Fundamentals of Photography LLC016. Cinematography LLC017. Music Appreciation and Composition LLC018. Script writing LLC019. Vehicle maintenance and traffic rules LLC020. Garden Design and Maintenance LLC021. Managing Social Media LLC022. Server and Network Maintenance LLC023. Electrical Safety LLC024. Mentoring of School Children LLC025. Social Club Activities LLC026. Cultural Club Activities LLC027. Any other course approved by Dean Academics Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Honors Courses to CE students: Following is the list of courses offered by the department. If student wish to have any other course offered by any other HEI or online platform (SWAYAM) then student can opt for it after approval from HoD and Dean Academics. Semester Subject III Mathematics for Computer Engineering IV Advanced Data Structures and Algorithms V Advanced Database Management Systems VI High Performance Computing VII Soft Computing VIII Swayam Course Minor Degree Offered to CE Students: A. Name: VLSI Design and Verification . Computer Aided Design for VLSI . FPGA Programming . Verification using System Verilog . VLSI Testing . AI and ML for VLSI . Swayam course B. Name: Internet of Things . Sensors and Actuators . Microcontroller Programming . Embedded System and RTOS . Fundamentals of IoT . IoT System Design . Swayam course C. Name: Automation and Robotics . Introduction to CAD/CAM . 3D Printing . Mechatronics . Industrial Robotics . Automation and Control . Swayam Course D. Name: Sustainable Development Engineering . Ancient Indian Sustainable Practices . Green Computing and Renewable Energy Systems . Social and Environmental Sustainability . Smart and Sustainable cities . Sustainability Frameworks . Sustainability Policies . From SWAYAM Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Comparison of Credit Distribution for Four Year UG Program for Fr CRCE and GR: UG: Computer Engineering Program Course Verticals Total Credits BSESC PCPEC MDC SC HSSM EL LLC SEM BSC ESC PCC PEC MDM OE VSEC AEC EEMC IKS VEC RM CEFP INT CC I II III IV V VI VII VIII Total Credits as per Fr CRCE Total Credits as per GR Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned BSC11CE01 Matrices and Differential Calculus L T P L T P Total Examination Scheme Total Theory (% weightage) Tutorial -- -- Pre-requisite Course Codes Course Outcomes CO1 Implement diagonalization of a given matrix using eigen values and eigen vectors. CO2 Execute Higher order derivatives of a given functions CO3 Apply partial differentiation technique to obtain the extremum of the given function. CO4 Demonstrate basic knowledge of analytic functions in solving engineering problems. Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs. Title Matrices ,,, . Introduction: Types of Matrices (symmetric, skew‐ symmetric, Hermitian, Skew Hermitian, Unitary, Orthogonal Matrices and their properties). Rank of a Matrix using Echelon forms, reduction to normal form. . System of Linear equations, their consistency and solutions. . Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors of a square matrix and their properties (without proof) . Cayley-Hamilton Theorem (without proof), verification and reduction of higher degree polynomials . Similarity of matrices, diagonalizable and non- diagonalizable matrices Title Successive Differentiation ,,, . Successive differentiation: nth derivative of standard functions. . Leibnitz’s Theorem (without proof) and problems Title Partial Differentiation ,,, . Partial Differentiation: Function of several variables, Partial derivatives of first and higher order. Differentiation of composite function. Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) . Euler’s Theorem on Homogeneous functions with two independent variables (with proof). Deductions from Euler’s Theorem. Maxima and Minima of a function of two independent variables, Title Analytic Functions ,,, . Function f(z)of complex variable, Limit, Continuity and Differentiability off(z), Analytic function: Necessary and sufficient conditions for f(z) to be analytic (without proof). . Cauchy-Riemann equations in Cartesian coordinates (without proof). . Milne-Thomson method: Determine analytic function f(z)when real part (u), imaginary part (v) or its combination au+bv is given. . Harmonic function, Harmonic conjugate and Orthogonal trajectories. Total Tutorial Exp. No. Tutorial Details Matrices: Rank of Matrix, system of Linear Equations Matrices: Eigen values ,Eigen Vectors, Diagonalization of matrix Successive Differentiation Partial derivatives: chain rule and composite functions Partial derivatives: Euler’s theorems and it’s Deductions Partial derivatives:((Applications)Maxima-Minima of functions Analytic functions: Cauchy-Riemann equations Analytic functions: Milne-Thomson method and It’s applications Course Assessment: Theory: syllabus Tutorial: evaluation for marks. evaluation for marks. Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Recommended Books: [] Dr B.S. Grewal, “Higher Engineering Mathematics”, Khanna Publications, 4nd Edition. [] H. K. Das, “Advanced Engineering Mathematics”, S. Chand, 28th Edition. [] Erwin Kreysizg, “Advanced Engineering Mathematics”, John Wiley & Sons, 10th Edition. [] Jain and Iyengar, “Advanced Engineering Mathematics”, Narosa Publications, 4th Edition. Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned BSC11CE02 Engineering Physics L T P L T P Total -- -- Examination Scheme Total Theory (% weightage) Lab -- -- Pre-requisite Course Codes Course Outcomes CO1 Derive the conditions for intensity maximum and minimum in interference and diffraction of light and solve numerical problems. CO2 Derive Schrodinger equation in time dependent and independent form and solve it for particle in a box problem. CO3 Explain the working of lasers and optical fiber and their applications. CO4 Explain Fermi level and its variations in semiconductors and derive expression for Hall Effect. CO5 Explain the Physical principles of sensors and their applications. Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs. Wave Optics – Interference & Diffraction . Theory of interference of light - Thin films- wedge shaped film, Newton’s rings, Anti reflection coating. . Fraunhofer diffraction at single slit – diffraction due to ‘n’ slits- plane transmission grating. Applications of grating. Quantum Physics . Wave – particle duality-de Broglie matter waves – Concept of wave function and its physical significance – Heisenberg’s Uncertainty Principle – Schrodinger’s wave equation – Time independent and Time dependent equations – Particle in a one-dimensional rigid box. Laser &Fiber optics , . Einstein’s theory of matter radiation interaction and A and B coefficients; Properties of laser-spontaneous and stimulated emission, amplification of light by population inversion, different types of lasers: solid-state lasers (Nd-YAG), gas lasers (He-Ne, CO2), applications. . Optical fiber- principle [TIR]-types-material, mode, refractive index- Expression for acceptance angle and numerical aperture. Application- Communication. Semiconductor Devices & Applications . Fermi -Dirac Distribution Law, Fermi Level in intrinsic & Extrinsic semiconductors, Variation of Fermi level with doping and temperature. P-N Junction, Fermi Level in P-N Junction in biased and unbiased conditions. Hall Effect and its applications. Physics of Sensors Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) . Resistive sensors: a) Temperature measurement: PT100 construction, calibration, LM35. b) Thermocouples: concept, calibration, and application of J -type and K-type thermocouple c) Humidity measurement using resistive sensors . Pressure sensor: Concept of pressure sensing by capacitive, flex and inductive method, Analog pressure sensor: construction working and calibration and applications. . Piezoelectric transducers: Concept of piezoelectricity, use of piezoelectric transducer as ultrasonic generator and application of ultrasonic transducer for distance measurement, liquid and air velocity measurement. . Optical sensor: Photodiode, construction and use of photodiode as ambient light measurement and flux measurement. Pyroelectric sensors: Construction and working principle, application of pyroelectric sensor as bolometer. Total Course Assessment: Theory: Activity: Article Discussion, Quiz and Assignments Outcome: Reflective Journal syllabus Lab: evaluation for marks. a. Four experiments. Continuous pre-defined rubrics-based evaluation for marks. b. Simulation using modern tools to solve the given problem statement for marks Exp. No. Experiment Details P-N Junction: Forward & Reverse bias characteristics Determination of Plank’s constant by Photo electric cell method Determination of wavelength of Laser by diffraction grating Determination of Numerical aperture & acceptance angle of optical fiber Determination of Radius of curvature of lens by Newton’s rings Determination of thickness using air wedge apparatus Determination of grating constant Determination of wavelengths of Mercury spectrum. Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Recommended Books: TEXT BOOKS . Optics by Subramaniam N & BrijLal, S Chand & Co. Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, . Modern Physics by R Murugeshan, Kiruthiga, Sivaprasath S Chand . Quantum Mechanics by Sathyaprakash, Pragati Prakashan, Meerut.] . Applied Engineering Physics – Rajendran & Marikani (Tata McGraw Hill) . Engineering Physics – Bhattacharya, Bhaskaran – Oxford Publications . Solid State Electronic Devices- B. G. Streetman, Prentice Hall Publisher . Handbook of Modern Sensors Physics design and application- Jacob Fraden, Springer, AIP press. REFERENCE BOOKS . Fundamentals of Optics by Jenkins A Francis and White E Harvey, McGRaw Hill Inc., New Delhi, . Quantum Mechanics by V. Devanathan, Narosa, Chennai. . Engineering Physics by M.N.Avadhanulu, S.Chand& Company Ltd. . Concepts of Modern Physics by Arthur Beisser, McGraw Hill, 7th edition. . Optics by R. Agarwal, S.Chand publishers. . Basic Electronics by B.L.Theraja, S.Chand publishers. . Fundamentals of Physics, 6th Edition, D. Halliday, R. Resnick and J. Walker, John Wiley and Sons, New York. . Electronic Instrumentation –H.S. Kalsi, Tata Mc Graw-Hill Education . Instrumentation & Measurement Techniques by Albert D. Helfrick & William D. Cooper (PHI) Edition Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned ESC11CE02 Engineering Graphics L T P L T P Total -- -- Examination Scheme Total Theory (% weightage) Lab -- -- Part A (Theory) Pre-requisite Course Codes Course Outcomes CO1 To draw Projection of Points, Lines and Planes CO2 To draw projections in Projection of solids CO3 To draw sectional views in Section of solids and draw the development of lateral surfaces of solids with sections CO4 To apply the basic principles of projections in converting 3D view to 2D drawing. CO5 To visualize an object from the given two views CO6 To use Computer Aided Drafting tools for drawing various views including Isometric Views Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs. . Introduction to Engineering Graphics Principles of Engineering Graphics and their significance, usage of Drawing instruments, Types of Lines, Dimensioning Systems as per IS conventions. Introduction to plain and diagonal scales. , . Engineering Curves Basic construction of Cycloid, Involutes and Helix (of cylinder) only. , . Projection of Points and Lines Lines inclined to both the Reference Planes (Excluding Traces of lines) and simple application based problems on Projection of lines. , . Projection of Planes Triangular, Square, Rectangular, Pentagonal, Hexagonal and Circular planes inclined to either HP or VP only. (Exclude composite planes). , . Projection of Solids (Prism, Pyramid, Cylinder, Cone only) Solid projection with the axis inclined to HP and VP. (Exclude Spheres, Composite, Hollow solids and frustum of solids).Use change of position or Auxiliary plane method , Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) . Section of Solids Section of Prism, Pyramid, Cylinder, & Cone cut by plane perpendicular to at least one reference plane (Exclude Curved Section Plane). Use change of position or Auxiliary plane method. , . Orthographic: - Fundamentals of orthographic projections. Different views of a simple machine part as per the first angle projection method recommended by I.S. Full or Half Sectional views of the Simple Machine parts , . Sectional Orthographic Projections Full or Half Sectional views of the Simple Machine parts , . Isometric Views:- Principles of Isometric projection – Isometric Scale, Isometric Views, Conversion of Orthographic Views to Isometric Views(Excluding Sphere ). ,, . Missing Views:The identification of missing views from the given views. Create the third view from the two available views so that all the details of the object are obtained ,, . Development of Lateral Surfaces Lateral surface development of Prism, Pyramid, Tetrahedron, Hexahedron, Cylinder, Cone with section plane inclined to HP or VP only. (Exclude DLS of a solid with a hole in it and Reverse Development) , Total Course Assessment: Theory: Making Models out of Card Boards/Clay for Basic Primitive solids. Solids will be cut by Section plane as per instructions provided Drawing Projections of Same as per instructions will be part of activity. Here Cut sections will also be developed using development principles. There will be small quiz or students will give a demonstration of Project or activity Assessment will be done by two teachers in the department who are teaching engineering graphics Team Activity Here One Simple component either machine component/Any simple component will be given to group of students in team. Students will measure dimensions and make working drawing of same showing all three views/sectional views including isometric view. At the end of activity Group will give presentation on same syllabus Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Lab: rubrics-based evaluation for marks. rubrics-based evaluation for marks. To be Taught in laboratory Topics Ref. Hrs. Overview of Computer Graphics Covering: Listing the computer technologies that impact on graphical communication, demonstrating knowledge of the theory of CAD software such as: The Menu System, Toolbars (Standard, Object Properties, Draw, Modify and Dimension), Drawing Area (Background, Crosshairs, Coordinate System), Dialog boxes and windows, Shortcut menus (Button Bars), The Command Line (where applicable),The Status Bar, Different methods of zoom as used in CAD, Select and erase objects. Customization & CAD Drawing: Consisting of set up of the drawing page and the printer including scale settings, Setting up of units and drawing limits, ISO and ANSI standards for coordinate dimensioning. Annotations, layering & other Functions Covering: Applying dimensions to objects, applying annotations to drawings, Setting up and use of layers, layers to create drawings, Create, edit and use customized layers, Changing line lengths through modifying existing lines (extend/lengthen),Printing documents to paper using the print command, orthographic projection techniques, Drawing sectional views of objects (simple machine parts). Activities to be Completed in CAD Lab A1 Orthographic Projection ( Problem) A2 Sectional Orthographic Projection ( Problem) A3 Reading of Orthographic Projections ( Problem) A4 Isometric Views ( Problems) Activities to be completed on A3 Size Sketchbook using Conventional Tools A6 Projection of Solids ( Problem) , A7 Sections of Solids and Development of Lateral Surfaces ( Problems) , A8 Sectional Orthographic Views ( Problem) , Total Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Recommended Books: [] N.D. Bhatt, "Engineering Drawing (Plane and solid geometry)", Charotar Publishing House Pvt. Ltd [] N.D. Bhatt & V.M. Panchal, "Machine Drawing", Charotar Publishing House Pvt. Ltd. [] Prof. Sham Tickoo (Purdue University) &GauravVerma, "( CAD Soft Technologies) :Auto CAD (For engineers and Designers)", Dreamtech Press NewDelhi [] Dhananjay A Jolhe, Engineering Drawing, Tata McGraw Hill. Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned ESC11CE02 Basic Electrical and Electronics Engineering L T P L T P Total -- -- Examination Scheme Total Theory (% weightage) Lab Pre-requisite Course Codes Course Outcomes CO1 Distinguish between various types of electrical sources CO2 Analyse both DC & AC circuits with independent sources. CO3 Discuss operation & applications of transformer & electrical machines CO4 Describe the working and applications different types of semiconductor diodes and BJT. CO5 Explain the working principle of sensors and identify their applications. CO6 Explain the basic method of AC to DC conversion. Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs . Introduction to DC Circuits . Basic electrical quantities -Electrical energy and power-Introduction to Resistance, Inductance and capacitance, Types of sources . ,, . Ohm’s Law-Fundamental circuit laws: KCL and KVL-D.C. circuits and network simplification (series, parallel, star/delta) Mesh and Nodal Analysis. ,, . Principle of superposition, Maximum power transfer Theorem ,,, . Fundamentals of AC . Generation of alternating voltage & current (AC), fundamentals of AC - waveforms, definitions of time period, amplitude, frequency, phase shift, RMS value & average value , . R, L, C in AC circuits, Series RL, RC and RLC circuits-application of complex notation- phase difference and power factor, phasor diagram, series-parallel circuits, active, reactive, apparent power, series resonance. ,, . Three phase circuits, advantages and applications, voltages, currents and power in Star connected and delta connected balanced circuits , . Transformers . Construction, principle of operation, types of transformer, induced emf equation and transformation ratio , . Transformer at No load and On load condition, Losses in transformer, Regulation and efficiency , Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) . Auto transformer working and applications , . Electrical Machines . Construction, principle of operation, types, and applications of DC generator, DC motor, equation of generated emf/back emf , . Construction, principle of operation, types, and applications of Induction motor. , . Semiconductor Diodes . Working of P-N junction Diode, I-V characteristic, application as a rectifier, introduction to filters (C, L, L-C & C-L-C) , . Types of Diodes such as LED, photo diode, zener diode characteristic and applications , . Bipolar Junction Transistor . Construction, types - NPN & PNP, characteristic, modes of operation, applications (switch & amplifier) , Total Course Assessment: (i) Theory: (a) Tutorial on independent solving of numerical examples ( marks) - hours (b) Circuit simulation for marks evaluation for marks. a. Four experiments. Continuous pre-defined rubrics-based evaluation for marks. b. Activity: Oral examination / viva-voce ( marks) Proposed List of Laboratory Experiments:- . Verification of Mesh and Nodal analysis. . Verification of Superposition Theorem. . Verification Maximum Power Transfer Theorem. . Measurement of electrical parameters for alternating sinusoidal voltage (AC) . To find resonance conditions in a R-L-C series resonance circuit . To measure relationship between phase and line, currents and voltages in three phase system . Forward & reverse bias characteristics of PN junction diode Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) . Application of PN junction diode – rectifiers (full-wave) Recommended Books: . V. N. Mittal and Arvind Mittal – Basic Electrical Engineering, Tata McGraw Hill . B. L. Theraja – Textbook of Electrical Technology, Prentice Hall of India (PHI) . Kothari & Nagrath – Theory and Problems of Basic Electrical Engineering, PHI (13th edition) . B.R Patil – Basic Electrical Engineering, Oxford Higher Education . V. K. Mehta – Principles of Electronics, S. Chand Publishing, New Delhi . R. S. Sedha – A Textbook of Applied Electronics, S. Chand Publishing, New Delhi Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned PCC11CE01 Innovation and Design Thinking L T P L T P Total -- -- -- -- Examination Scheme Total Theory -- -- -- -- -- Lab -- -- Pre-requisite Course Codes At the end of the course the students will be able Course Outcomes CO1 To discuss case studies of innovative products and services. CO2 To identify the market needs and customer demand analysis. CO3 To generate ideas through brainstorming and frame product/service idea CO4 To empathize with the customer. CO5 To design and develop a prototype. CO6 To pitch their idea. Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs. Innovation and Creativity: (Takeaway) Innovation, Invention and Creativity. Mindset. Convergent and Divergent Thinking. Case Studies – levels and types of Innovations. Market Impact. Linear and Non-Linear Innovations. (Key Exercises) . Exercises/Games/Activities to boost creativity and Inspiration . Article/Case Studies Discussion . Digital Market Survey Report and Customer Demand Analysis, Preparing competencies report to identify desired level of innovation & domain definition. Introduction of Design Thinking: (Takeaway) Five stage model of design thinking. Empathize, Define, Ideate, Prototype, Testing. Non-linearity of the Model. (Key Exercises) . Live examples and videos . Design Thinking Activity for given problem . Find the impact and value of Innovation . Empathize: (Takeaway) Empathize with users. Step into the customer’s shoes. Ask right questions.What? Why? Empathy Map. Draw inference from research. (Key Exercises) Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) . Immersion Activity-Body Storming. . Finding the user needs in the market by using Social, Physical, Identity, Communication, Emotional (SPICE) Framework . Creation of Empathy Map, Affinity Map, Mind Map, Journey Map . Story Telling, K-Scripts for case study, Role Playing . Definition and Ideation: (Takeaway) Idea Generation, Themes, Thinking for refinement, Storytelling and Tools for Innovation (Key Exercises) . Brainstorming, Sketch . Situation, Constraints, Objectives, People, Estimates and Scope (SCOPES) tool . Social. Technology, Economy, Environment and Political (STEEP) trend analysis for opportunity framing by using steep matrix template. . Defining the strategic priorities of customer demand and stakeholder mapping . Generating new ideas with Substitute, Combine, Adapt, Magnify/Minify, Reverse, Eliminate, put to other use (SCAMPER) tool. . Prototyping: Prototyping, Testing for Desirable, Feasible and viable solution, Product Market Fit, Business Model validation (Takeaway) (Key Exercises) . Value Proposition Canvas . Business Model canvas The Design Challenge: (Takeaway) Define Design Challenge, Prototyping Iteration, Pitching, Media (Key Exercises) . Demo day Total Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Assessment: Lab: workshop for a sample idea, Empathy Map) Continuous pre-defined rubrics-based evaluation for marks. a. Idea Competition. Continuous pre-defined rubrics-based evaluation for marks. b. Business Model Canvas for identified Idea for marks c. Demo Day – Prototype for marks Recommended Books: . Prof. Bala Ramadurai, “Karmic Design Thinking”, ISBN- January . . Idris Mootee, “Design Thinking For Strategic Innovation: What They Can't Teach You at Business or Design School”, , Wiley Publications. . Christoph Meinel, Larry Leifer, Hasso Plattner, “Design Thinking: Understand – Improve – Apply”, Springer, . . Roger Martin, “The Design of Businesses: Why Design Thinking is the next Competitive Advantage”, Harward Business Press, Referenced Books: [] Peter F. Drucker, “Innovation and Entrepreneurship”, Routledge. [] Tim Brown, “Change by Design: How Design Thinking Transforms Organizations and Inspires Innovation”, HarperBusiness. [] Blake Masters, Peter Thiel, “Zero to One: Notes on Start Ups, or How to Build the Future” [] Eric Ries, “The Lean Startup: How Today's Entrepreneurs Use Continuous Innovation to Create Radically Successful Businesses” Penguin [] Andrew King, Jeanne Liedtka, Kevin Bennett, “Solving Problems with Design Thinking: Ten Stories of What Works”, Columbia Business School Publishing, . [] Maurício Vianna, Ysmar Vianna, Isabel K. Adler, Brenda Lucena, Beatriz Russo, “Design Thinking: Business Innovation Kindle Edition”, MJV Press [] Robert A. Burgelman, Clayton M. Christensen, Steven C Wheelwright, “Strategic Management of Technology and Innovation”, McGraw-Hill, , 5th Edition. Online Courses: https://www.classcentral.com/course/youtube-design-thinking-transforming-teams- https://www.coursera.org/learn/uva-darden-design-thinking-innovation https://www.coursera.org/learn/creative-thinking-techniques-and-tools-for-success https://www.coursera.org/specializations/uva-darden-design-thinking learning.edx.org: Design Thinking and Creativity for Innovation Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned PCC11CE02 Essential Computing skills for engineers L T P L T P Total -- -- -- -- Examination Scheme Total Theory -- -- -- -- -- Lab -- -- Pre-requisite Course Codes Course Outcomes CO1 use Linux commands to perform file operations. CO2 use Matlab/ Scilab for scientific computing. CO3 use web technology to design web pages. CO4 perform CRUD operations using relational databases. CO5 create scientific document using LaTeX. CO6 perform data analysis using spreadsheet. Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs. Introduction to Linux Operating System [] . Demonstration of installation of Linux Operating System [] . Linux command prompt usage, Use of man command, Linux directory structure, finding present working directory in Linux, listing files and directories with different options, changing the directory, creating files and directories using Linux commands [] . Deleting files with rm, deleting folder with -d & -r, moving files and folders with mv, renaming with mv, copying with cp, use of cat command, the wc command, the sort command, Redirection in Linux, Introduction to piping, use of nano and/or vi editor [] . Use of locate and find commands, Use of Grep in Linux, use of chmod and chown for giving permissions in Linux [] Introduction to Scientific Computing using Matlab/ Scilab [] . Introduction to Matlab/Scilab, getting data into Matlab/Scilab, creating, concatenating and reshaping arrays, Accessing data in arrays, mathematical and statistical operations with arrays [] . Taking user input, control structures for making decisions and adapting to different situations, conditional data selection [] . Visualizing data using 2D and 3D plots, introduction to toolboxes for different scientific computing tasks, creating and calling functions [] . Introduction to tables of data, storing and sorting table data, extracting data from table, exporting tables, combining tables, []indexing into cell arrays, Working with date and time [] Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) . Preprocessing data- normalizing data, working with missing data [] Foundations of web technology [] . HTML Basics- HTML tags and attributes, Headings in HTML, creating paragraphs in HTML, Basic formatting tags of HTML, giving background and font colors using HTML, creating links using HTML, Adding images in HTML [] . Creating tables and lists using HTML, creating forms in HTML, Embedding videos on web page [] . CSS syntax, CSS selectors, background formatting using CSS, CSS box model, adding borders, margins and padding using CSS, adding styles to fonts using CSS, Positioning using CSS, Pseudo- classes in CSS, CSS navigation bar, creating image gallery using CSS, use of external CSS for creating website layout [] . Introduction to Javascript, basic Javascript syntax, Variables in Javascript, operators and control structures in Javascript, functions in Javascript, arrays and number handling in Javascript, [] . DOM manipulation in Javascript, Form validation using Javascript [] Introduction to Database Technology [] . Installation of MySQL/Postgresql, creating database schema and tables, DML operations, conditional selection of records from the database tables, demonstration of PHP-MySQL/Postgresql database connectivity [] Introduction to LaTeX [] . Demonstration of installation and usage of Texlive/MikeTex, formatting words, lines and paragraphs, font formatting, creating section and subsections, use of geometry package [] . Insertion of graphics and tables in document, creation of lists, mathematics environment, writing equations [] . Writing algorithms, inserting code in document, creating table of contents, creating hyperlinks [] . Bibliography management, citations, creating chapters using report class, inserting other .tex and .pdf files in document [] . Presentation in LaTeX using beamer class, creating overlay in beamer, blocks in beamer presentation, presentation themes [] . Usage of style files in a document [] Data analysis using spreadsheet [] . Introduction to Microsoft Excel/Open office Calc/Google Sheets, functionality using ranges, use of formulae for basic data analysis (sum, average, if, count, min, max, proper, upper, lower, autosum), sorting, filter, text to column, data validation [] . Use of advance formulae for data analysis (concatenate, vlookup, hlookup, match, countif, text, trim) [] . Creating pivot tables, manipulating pivot table, usage of pivot table tool bar, changing data field properties, displaying a pivot [] Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) chart, setting pivot table options, adding subtotals to pivot tables . Data visualization- creating 2D and 3D plots [] . Data visualization using conditional formatting- creating formula-based rules [] Total Course Assessment: a. Quiz based on module for marks. b. Completion of any courses from suggested list on module for marks. Suggested URL and course list: https://matlabacademy.mathworks.com/ . MATLAB Onramp . Simulink Onramp . App Building Onramp . Object-Oriented Programming Onramp . Simscape Onramp . Circuit Simulation Onramp c. Quiz based on module for marks. d. Assignment (web page designing) based on module for marks. a. Quiz based on module for marks. b. Assignment (Scientific Document Preparation using LaTeX ) based on module for marks. c. Assignment (data analysis using spreadsheet) based on module for marks. Recommended References: . https://ubuntu.com/tutorials?topic=desktop . https://in.mathworks.com/support/learn-with-matlab-tutorials.html . https://www.w3schools.com/ . https://www.mysql.com/ . https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/LaTeX . https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/excel-video-training-9bc05390-e94c-46af- a5b3-d7c22f6990bb Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned VSE11CE01 Measuring Instruments and Testing Tools L T P L T P Total -- -- -- -- Examination Scheme Total Theory -- -- -- -- Lab -- -- Pre-requisite Course Codes After successful completion of the course, the student will be able to Course Outcomes CO1 Have a working knowledge about the measurement process, units of measurements, static and dynamic characteristics of instrument. CO2 Identify and classify types of test & measuring instruments that are available in the laboratory CO3 Find out and verify the manufacturers, make, models, market cost and specifications of the given instrument CO4 Select a suitable test & measuring instrument for any given system, application or a process CO5 Understand the importance & significance of calibration of measuring instrument CO6 Study various quality standards for Measurement, Inspection and Testing Teaching Learning Methodology: Role Play Model a. Instructor Responsibilities : Explain theoretical background, provide required sample formats, guide students in identification of appropriate online material, supervision and assessment of overall activity, summarize the activity b. First Group of Students :Customer Responsibilities : To finalize specifications of instrument to be purchased prepare request for quotations, prepare comparative statement, preparation for purchase order (PO) c. Second Group of Students: Manufacturer / Vendor Responsibilities : To maintain the specifications of manufactured instruments, to submit quotations including all applicable taxes, to prepare invoice as per purchase order (PO) d. Third Group of Students: Sales/Service Engineer Responsibilities : To demonstrate capabilities of various instruments and convince customer to purchase a particular instrument, to prepare Delivery Challan, Install the instrument and prepare Installation report, Demonstrate all the functions and uses of the instrument Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs. Introduction to Basic Concepts of Measurements . Introduction to the measurement process & its aim, functional elements of an instrumentation system, Need of Inspection, Go-NoGo Gauges. Difference between measuring instrument and Comparator. . Introduction to Standards such as IS/ BIS, NABL standards. Errors in measurement, types, classification, Calibration & its importance, Calibration method. . Difference between sensor and transducer, classification of Types of electrical, electronic and mechanical sensors Units, Standards & Characteristics . Unit systems – MKS, CGS & SI for electrical & mechanical quantities . Performance characteristics of instruments – static characteristics & dynamic characteristics, List of Manufacturers/ vendors dealing with sale, service and repair of measuring and test instruments. . Mechanical Test & Measuring Instruments Measurement of linear dimensions using Vernier caliper. . Measurement of gauge thickness using Screw Thread micrometer . . Measurement & Marking dimensions using Vernier height gauge . Measurement of small dimensions by Optical Profile Projector Setting of dimensions using precision gauge blocks ( slip gauges) by . Wringing process. Identification of surface flatness defects using principle of interferometry by optical flats and monochromatic light. . Measurement of components deviations w.r.t. standard using mechanical comparator . Spirit Level for Alignment test . Feeler Gauges for Gap measurement . Thread Gauges for thread measurement Electronic Test & Measuring Instruments . Digital Multimeter . DC Power Supply . Function Generator . Digital Storage Oscilloscope (DSO) Sensors & Transducers . Proximity Sensors – Capactive, Inductance, Optical sensors Mechanical Limit Switch. . . . Piezo-Transducers for Pressure measurement, Strain Gauge Load cell Linear Variable Differential Transducer (LVDT) Total Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Assessment: A) After completion of Module and Module , Online Quiz / Q/A Assignment of marks to be conducted to check theoretical knowledge of measuring instruments and testing tools. B) To conduct Minimum experiment from the module (Total marks = x = marks) A) To perform role play (Group Activity of students each) (Total marks = marks) B) To conduct Minimum experiment from the module , , (Total marks = x = marks) Recommended Books: [] Engineering. Metrology, I.C. GUPTA, Dhanpat Rai Publications. [] Engineering. Metrology, R. K. Jain, Khanna Publisher. [] Engineering Metrology and Measurements, Raghavendra, Krishnamurthy, OUP India, [] Fundamentals of Micro-electronics, Behzad Razavi, Wiley Publications, [] Sensors and Transducers, Second Edition, D.Patranabis, PHI publications, [] J. Millman and A. Grabel, “Microelectronics”, Tata McGraw Hill, 2nd Edition. [] Jan M. Rabaey, Anantha Chandrakasan and Borivoje Nikolic, “Digital Integrated Circuits: A Design Perspective”, Pearson Education, 2nd Edition. [] Engineering Metrology, K. J. Hume, Kalyani publication [] Engineering. Metrology, Hume K.G., M C Donald, Technical &Scientific, London. Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned AEC11CE01 Art of Communication (AoC) L T P L T P Total -- -- Examination Scheme Total Lab -- -- Pre-requisite Course Codes Basic Language Skills Course Outcomes CO1 Understand the roots and fundamentals of communication. CO2 Apply Strategies to develop vocabulary and grammar skills for competitive exams CO3 Develop Listening, Reading, Speaking and Writing skills CO4 Acquire effective correspondence skills CO5 Relate Communication to Management Information Systems in the corporate sector Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs. Introduction to Communication . Ancient India and Communication: Roots of Communication skills in Indian Tradition, Importance of Communication, Cycle. . Strengths and Weaknesses of Oral and Non-verbal Communication (Kinesics, Proxemics, Chronemics, Haptics, Oculesics, Olfactics, Paralanguage) Steps to Public Speaking: Planning your speech, Delivery of Speech, Dealing with stage fear . Barriers and Gateways in Communication: Types of barriers: Physical, Mechanical, Psychological, Semantic and Cross-cultural . Verbal Ability in Competitive exams: English grammar and Strategies for UPSC/GATE/GRE/IELTS/TOEFL/CAT . . . . Communicative Competence Listening : Listening to two talks/lectures by specialists on selected subject specific topics -(TED Talks) and answering comprehension exercises (inferential questions) Speaking : Small group discussions (the discussions could be based on the listening and reading passages- open ended questions Reading :Two subject-based reading texts followed by comprehension Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) activities/exercises Writing: Summary writing based on the reading passages. Listening : Listening to two talks/lectures by specialists on selected subject specific topics -(TED Talks) and answering comprehension exercises (inferential questions) Speaking : Small group discussions (the discussions could be based on the listening and reading passages- open ended questions Reading :Two subject-based reading texts followed by comprehension activities/exercises Writing: Summary writing based on the reading passages. Listening: Motivational Talks or TED TALKS Reading : Self-learning (Reading of Literary piece or Research paper (Environment, Sustainability and Social aspects) Speaking: Discussion on Ethics and on self-learning tasks Writing: Review writing or writeup for public speaking . . Effective Correspondence Introduction, Do’s and Don’ts, Format and Types • Application for internship • Request/Permission . • Management Information System • Introduction, Purpose, Structure, Characteristics, Limitation Total Sr. No. Title of the assignments/Activities to be carried out in the Lab Draft and Orally presenting Public speaking/ Extempore Presentation/Poster Making - Modern times learning from Vedas/Upanishads/ Bhagvad gita/ Mahabharata Aptitude Test on verbal ability Listening skills: Quiz/ Subjective type questions Reading& Writing skills: Reviewing a book/ Research paper Speaking skills: Panel Discussion Correspondence Management Information system assignment Communication module assignment Total Public Speaking, Extempore, Aptitude test, presenting through Power point or Poster Making Learning outcome: Acquiring public Speaking skills for formal events and improving verbal Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) ability PO10: Communication, PO9: Individual and Team Work, P12: Long Life Learning Learning outcome: Efficiently developing listening, reading and writing skills P10: Communication, PO8: Ethics, PO9: Individual and Team Work, P12: Long Life Learning Reference Books: Sr. No. Title Edition Authors Publisher Year Communication Skills Shirley Mathews Technical Publication, Pune English Vocabulary in Use Michael McCarthy, Felicity O’Dell Cambridge University Press, India Oxford Practice Grammar John Eastwood Oxford, India Communication Skills Meenakshi Raman, Sangeeta Sharma Oxford, India English Grammar for Today Geoffrey Leech Palgrave, UK Word Power Made Easy Norman Lewis Anchor Books, New York Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned BSC11CE03 Integral Calculus and Probability Theory L T P L T P Total Examination Scheme Total Theory (% weightage) Tutorial -- -- Pre-requisite Course Codes Course Outcomes CO1 Execute first order linear differential equation. CO2 Execute higher order linear differential equation. CO3 Interpret the region of integration in solving double integrals. CO4 Apply concepts of probability and expectation for getting spread of the data and probability distributions. Theory: Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs. Title Linear Differential Equations of first order ,,, . Exact Differential Equations, Integrating Factors, equations reducible to exact form. . Linear differential equations (Definition), equations reducible to linear form, Bernoulli’s equation Title Linear Differential Equations of higher order ,,, . Linear differential equation with constant coefficient‐ complementary function, particular integrals of differential equation of the type f(D)y = X where X is 𝑒ax, sin(ax+b), cos(ax+b), 𝑥𝑚, 𝑒𝑎𝑥V, xV, where V is a function of x. . Cauchy’s homogeneous linear differential equation and Method of variation of parameters for second order. Title Integral Calculus ,,, . Gamma functions: properties of gamma functions and integrals reducible to gamma functions. . Beta functions: properties, relation between Beta and Gamma functions, integrals reducible to Beta functions, Duplication formula. . Tracing of curves (Standard curves, Cardioide, Lemniscate, Spheres, Ellipsoids, Cylinders, Cones, Tetrahedrons, planes) . Double Integration: definition and evaluation. Evaluate by changing the order of integration and by changing to polar form. Title Probability ,,, Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) . Definition and basics of probability, conditional probability. . Total Probability theorem and Bayes’ theorem. . Discrete and continuous random variable with probability distribution and probability density function. . Expectation, Variance, Moment generating function, Raw and central moments up to 4th order. Total Tutorial: Exp. No. Tutorial Details Linear differential equations: Exact and non-exact Linear differential equations: Linear and reducible to linear Linear differential equations: higher order Linear differential equations: higher order Beta and Gamma functions Double integration Random variables (discrete and continuous) Expectation, variance, raw and central moments Course Assessment: Theory: syllabus Tutorial: evaluation for marks. evaluation for marks Recommended Books: [] Dr B.S. Grewal, “Higher Engineering Mathematics”, Khanna Publications, 4nd Edition. [] H. K. Das, “Advanced Engineering Mathematics”, S. Chand, 28th Edition. [] Erwin Kreysizg, “Advanced Engineering Mathematics”, John Wiley & Sons, 10th Edition. [] Jain and Iyengar, “Advanced Engineering Mathematics”, Narosa Publications, 4th Edition. Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned BSC11CE04 Engineering Chemistry L T P L T P Total -- -- Examination Scheme Total Theory (% weightage) Lab -- -- Pre-requisite Course Codes -- Course Outcomes CO1 To evaluate the activity and selectivity of the catalyst CO2 To compare the different types renewable sources of energy CO3 To compare the different types of corrosion and control measures in industries. CO4 To determine the quality of fuel and quantify the oxygen required for combustion of fuel. CO5 To evaluate the different types of fabrication methods, conducting polymers in various industrial fields Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs. Title Catalysis ,, Basic concepts of catalysis (Homogeneous and Heterogeneous catalysis), Industrial applications of Catalysis-Oxidation- Hydroformylation, Reduction-Hardening of vegetable oils, Wilkinson`s catalyst-Hydrogenation, Vaska`s complex – Carbonylation, Commercial catalytic reactors (fixed bed, fluidized bed). Title Energy resources (Solar, Hydel, Thermal etc.) Introduction to Energy Sources, Solar Energy Basics, Solar Thermal Systems, Wind Energy, Geothermal Energy, Energy from Ocean: Principle of tidal power, components of Tidal Power Plant (TPP), classification, advantages and limitations of TPP. Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion (OTEC): Principle of OTEC system, types of OTEC power generation, block diagram, applications, advantages and limitations. ,, Title Corrosion Definition, Mechanism of Corrosion – (I) Dry or Chemical Corrosion - i) Due to oxygen ii) Due to other gases. (II) Wet or Electrochemical corrosion - Mechanism i) Evolution of hydrogen type ii) Absorption of oxygen. Types of Corrosion - Galvanic cell corrosion, Concentration cell corrosion (differential aeration principle), Factors affecting the rate of corrosion - (i) Nature of metal, (ii) Nature of corroding environment. Methods of ,, Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) corrosion control – (I) Material selection and proper designing, (II) Cathodic protection - i) Sacrificial anodic protection ii) Impressed current method, (III) Metallic coatings - only Cathodic coating (tinning) and anodic coatings (Galvanising) Title Fuels and combustion Definition, classification, characteristics of a good fuel, units of heat (no conversions). Calorific value - Definition, Gross or Higher calorific value & Net or lower calorific value, Dulong’s formula & numerical for calculations of Gross and Net calorific values. Solid fuels - Analysis of coal - Proximate and Ultimate Analysis - numerical problems and significance. Combustion - Calculations for requirement of only oxygen and air (by weight and by volume only) for given solid & gaseous fuels. ,, Title Polymers Molecular weight (Number average and weight average), Numericals problems on molecular weight, Effect of heat on the polymers (Glass transition temperatures), Viscoelasticity, Conducting polymers, Classification-Thermoplastic and Thermosetting polymers, Compounding of plastic, Fabrication of plastic by Compression, Injection,Transfer and Extrusion molding, Preparation, properties and uses of PMMA, Butyl Rubber, PTFE and Kevlar ,, Exp. No. List of Experiments To determine the emf of a given cell potentiometrically. To determine the moisture and Ash content in the given fuel sample. To determine the percentage of volatile matter of a given sample by steam distillation method. To determine the COD value of a given sample. To determine the pH value of a given sample. To Remove hardness of water by ion-exchange method. To determine the cobalt ion concentration by colorimetry method. To determine the conductance of a given sample Course Assessment: Theory: Activity: Article Discussion, Quiz and Assignments Outcome: Reflective Journal Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) syllabus Lab: evaluation for marks. a. Four experiments. Continuous pre-defined rubrics-based evaluation for marks. b. Reflective journal analysis on the given problem statement for marks Recommended Books: . Engineering Chemistry - Jain & Jain, Dhanpat Rai . Engineering Chemistry – Dara & Dara, S Chand . Green Chemistry: A textbook – V.K.Ahluwalia, Alpha Science International . A Text Book of Engineering Chemistry – Shashi Chawla, DhanpatRai . Textbook of Qualitative Inorganic Analysis: A. I. Vogel Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned L T P L T P Total ESC11CE03 Programming Fundamentals -- -- Examination Scheme Total Theory (% weightage) Lab -- -- Pre-requisite Course Codes Course Outcomes CO1 Explain the problem solving aspects using various programming paradigms. CO2 Illustrate programming principles, decision making statements, looping constructs. CO3 Demonstrate modular programming using functions CO4 Demonstrate the applications of derived data types such as arrays, pointers, strings and functions. CO5 Apply various C++ constructs such as classes, objects, static members, access specifiers CO6 Apply the concept of inheritance to achieve code reusability and virtual functions for run time polymorphism Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs. Introduction to Problem Solving - . Steps for Problem Solving. Algorithm and FlowChart. Flow of Control. . Imperative and Declarative Programming Paradigm. C Programming Fundamentals , . Variables, keywords, Data types, Operators: Arithmetic, Relational and Logical, Assignment, Unary, Conditional, Bitwise, Expression, Statements. Operator Precedence and Expression evaluation. . Branching Structures: if statement, if-else statement, multi-way decision, switch statement, continue statement, break statement . Iterative Structures: while, do-while, for, nested loops, Jump control statements. Arrays , . Declaration, Definition, accessing array elements, one-dimensional array, two-dimensional array, array of characters, standard String handling functions. Functions and Pointer , . Defining a Function, accessing a Function, Function Prototype, Passing Arguments to a Function, call by value, call by reference, Recursion . Declaration and Access of Pointer variables, Pointer arithmetic, Pointer and Arrays. Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Fundamentals of Object Oriented Programming , . Declaration, Initialization, Array of Structure, pointer to structure. . Features of OOP, Classes and Objects, “this” pointer, Constructor and Destructors, static members. . Inline functions, Passing parameters to functions, Functions with default arguments . Access Specifiers, Friend Function and Friend Classes Inheritance and Polymorphism , . Types of Inheritance: Single Inheritance, Multiple Inheritance, Multi- level Inheritance, Hierarchical Inheritance, Inheritance and Constructors . Function Overloading, Operator Overloading. . Polymorphism, Virtual Functions, Pure Virtual Functions, Abstract Classes. Total Indicative Experiments Programs using Basic Control Structures, branching and looping. Programs for the use of -D, -D arrays and String. Demonstrate the use of Functions with different types of parameter passing mechanisms. Demonstrate the use of Pointers Program on Structures and pointer to Structure. Programs on basics of Object Oriented Programming Construct, Program to demonstrate various categories Inheritance. Program to apply kinds of Polymorphism. Course Assessment: Theory: Assignments: marks syllabus Lab: a. Four experiments. Continuous pre-defined rubrics-based evaluation for marks. b. Practical Exam: marks Recommended Books: [] Yashavant Kanetkar, “Let Us C”, BPB publication, Sixteenth Edition [] V. Rajaraman & Neeharika Adabala, “Computer Programming in C” PHI Learning, Eastern Economy Edition, Second Edition. Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) [] K.R. Venugopal, Rajkumar, T. Ravishankar, “Mastering C++” ,Tata McGraw Hill, Second Edition. [] Herbert Schildt, “ C++:Complete Reference”, Tata McGraw Hill, Fourth Edition, Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned ESC11CE04 Human Health Systems L T P L T P Total -- -- -- -- Examination Scheme Total Theory -- -- Lab -- -- -- -- -- Pre-requisite Course Codes Basic Science Course Outcomes CO1 Familiarize the students with the basic biological concepts and their engineering applications. CO2 Understand bio-design principles to create novel devices and structures in the future CO3 Develop the interdisciplinary vision of biological engineering Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs. Topic Significance of Biology in Engineering . Introduction, Aspects of Biology as an Independent scientific discipline . Biological observations of the 18th Century that led to major discoveries, Brownian motion, Origin of Thermodynamics concerning original observations of Robert Brown and Julius Mayor . Fundamental importance of observation in any scientific inquiry Topic Human Organ Systems and Bio Designs – . Brain as a CPU System, Architecture of the human brain as a CPU system- Comparison between Brains Computing System with Conventional Von Neumann Computing System . Central Nervous System (CNS) and Peripheral Nervous System (PNS)- types: Somatic and Autonomic, Signal Transmission EEG (Electroencephalography- Applications, EEG Signals and Types of Brain Activity) . Robotic Arms for Prosthetics- Robotic Arm Prosthetic Direct Control through Muscle Signals (myoelectric control), Robotic Arm Prosthetic by Brain- Machine Interfaces . Parkinson's disease Engineering Solutions for Parkinson’s Disease . Artificial Brain . Eye as a Camera system (architecture of rod and cone cells, optical corrections, cataract, lens materials, bionic eye) . Heart as a pump system (architecture, electrical signaling - ECG monitoring and heart-related issues, reasons for blockages of blood vessels, design of stents, pacemakers, defibrillators) Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Topic Human Organ Systems and Bio Designs – . Lungs as purification system (architecture, gas exchange mechanisms, spirometry, abnormal lung physiology – COPD(Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), Ventilators, Heart-lung machine) . Kidney as a filtration system (architecture, mechanism of filtration, Chronic Kidney Disease, dialysis systems) . Muscular and Skeletal Systems as scaffolds (architecture, mechanisms, bioengineering solutions for muscular dystrophy and osteoporosis) Topic Nature-Bioinspired Materials And Mechanisms . Echolocation (ultrasonography, sonars), . Photosynthesis (photovoltaic cells, bionic leaf). . Lotus leaf effect (Super hydrophobic and self-cleaning surfaces), . Plant burrs (Velcro) . Kingfisher beak (Bullet train) . Shark skin (Friction reducing swimsuits) . Human Blood substitutes - hemoglobin-based oxygen carriers (HBOCs) and Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) Topic Trends in Bioengineering . Bioprinting techniques and materials, . 3D printing of ear, bone, and skin. 3D printed foods, Electrical tongue, and electrical nose in food science, . DNA origami and Biocomputing, . Bioimaging and Artificial Intelligence for disease diagnosis. . Self-healing Bio concrete (based on bacillus spores, calcium lactate nutrients, and biomineralization processes) . Bioremediation and Biomining via microbial surface adsorption (removal of heavy metals like Lead, Cadmium, Mercury, and Arsenic) Total . . . Presentation / Poster Making Suggested Learning Resources: • Human Physiology, Stuart Fox, Krista Rompolski, McGraw-Hill eBook. 16th Edition, • Biology for Engineers, Thyagarajan S., Selvamurugan N., Rajesh M.P., Nazeer R.A., Thilagaraj W., Barathi S., and Jaganthan M.K., Tata McGraw-Hill, New Delhi, . • Biology for Engineers, Arthur T. Johnson, CRC Press, Taylor and Francis, • Biomedical Instrumentation, Leslie Cromwell, Prentice Hall . Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) • Biology for Engineers, Sohini Singh and Tanu Allen, Vayu Education of India, New Delhi, . • Biomimetics: Nature-Based Innovation, Yoseph Bar-Cohen, 1st edition, , CRC Press. • Bio-Inspired Artificial Intelligence: Theories, Methods and Technologies, D. Floreano and C. Mattiussi, MIT Press, . • Bioremediation of heavy metals: bacterial participation, by C R Sunilkumar, N Geetha A C Udayashankar Lambert Academic Publishing, . • 3D Bioprinting: Fundamentals, Principles and Applications by Ibrahim Ozbolat, Academic Press, . • Electronic Noses and Tongues in Food Science, Maria Rodriguez Mende, Academic Press, • Blood Substitutes, Robert Winslow, Elsevier, Web links and Video Lectures (e-Resources): . https://nptel.ac.in/courses/ . https://freevideolectures.com/course//nptel-biology-engineers-other-non-biologists . https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/--introduction-to-biological-engineering-design-spring- . https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/-010j-introduction-to-bioengineering-be-010j-spring- . https://www.coursera.org/courses?query=biology . https://www.classcentral.com/subject/biology . https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/biology-basic-concepts Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned PCC11CE03 Digital Electronics L T P L T P Total -- -- Examination Scheme Total Theory (% weightage) Lab – – Pre-requisite Course Codes Binary number system and codes, binary arithmetic Course Outcomes After the successful completion students should be able to CO1 Compare TTL and CMOS families w.r.t. their characteristic parameters CO2 Construct combinational circuits using given MSI devices. CO3 Apply the knowledge of flip-flops and MSI devices to design sequential circuits. CO4 Analyze the given sequential circuits to identify the state transitions and race conditions. CO5 Implement the given logic function using programmable logic devices. Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref Hrs. Implementation of Logic functions . Logic gates, Implementation of functions using basic gates and using Universal gates ,, , . Formulating a logic function, Sum of Products (SOP), Product of Sums (POS), Minimization using Boolean Algebra, De Morgan’s Theorems, Minimization using Karnaugh map (upto variables), Quine-McClusky Technique ,, , Logic Families . Characteristic parameters of logic families: Voltage and Current parameters, Fan in, Fan out, Noise margin, Power Dissipation, Propagation Delay ,, , . TTL NAND gate and its transfer characteristics, CMOS inverter and transfer characteristics, comparison of TTL and CMOS logic families . Combinational Circuit Design . Full adders, ripple carry adders, Carry Look ahead Adders, Binary Subtractors ,, , . Multiplexer/ Demultiplexer, Encoders, Priority Encoders, Parity Generators, Code Converters, comparator, ALU . Static and dynamic hazards in combinational circuits . Elements of Sequential Circuit . Storage elements: Latches and Flip-flops ( S-R, J-K, D, T Flip-flop), Master Slave Flip-flop ,, , . Synchronous and Asynchronous counters, Shift registers and their ,, Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) applications , . Analysis of Sequential circuits . Analysis of Moore and Mealy type Finite State Machines (FSM), State Reduction ,, , . Introduction to Asynchronous Sequential circuits, Essential hazards in asynchronous sequential circuits ,, , . Programmable devices Structure of Programmable Logic Devices (PLDs), Function implementation with PAL and PLAs, Introduction to CPLD and FPGA ,, , Total Laboratory Experiments: Sr. No. Title of experiment Module Ref . To implement the combinational logic for a given function using basic gates and Universal gates. , . To simulate a CMOS inverter and to plot the transfer characteristics (using SPICE) , . a. To verify the function of bit binary adder IC7483 b. To implement a BCD adder using IC7483 , . a. To implement the function of bit Multiplexer using IC74151 b. To implement a given variable Boolean function using Multiplexer IC , . To implement an bit binary comparator using IC , . a. To implement a Mod n asynchronous counter using flip-flops b. To implement a Mod n counter using IC , . Implementation of a combinational circuit using reconfigurable devices a. To write an HDL code for the parity generator and simulate verify the operation by simulation. b. To implement the HDL code on FPGA and verify the operation. , . Implementation of a sequential circuit using reconfigurable devices a. To write an HDL code for a bit shift register and verify the operation by simulation. b. To implement the HDL code on FPGA and verify the operation. . Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Assessment: Theory: . Open book test …. marks . Oral examination…. marks syllabus Laboratory Assessment: evaluation for marks. a. Four experiments. Continuous pre-defined rubrics-based evaluation for marks. b. Activity based: Testing and debugging activity for marks Recommended Books: [] John F. Wakerly, “Digital Design Principles and Practice”- Pearson Publications, 4th edition [] Morris Mano, Michael D. Ciletti, “ Digital Design with introduction to Verilog HDL” Pearson, 5th edition [] John M. Yarbrough, “Digital Logic Applications and Design” – Thomson Publications [] Stephen Brown and ZvonkoVranesic, “Fundamentals of digital logic design with Verilog design”, McGraw Hill, 3rd Edition [] Roth and Kinney, “Fundamentals of Logic Design”, Cengage learning,7th edition [] William I.Fletcher, “An Engineering Approach to Digital Design”, PrenticeHall of India [] J. Bhaskar, A Verilog HDL Primer, Third Edition, Star Galaxy Publishing [] Sameer Palnitkar, “Verilog HDL: A guide to digital design and synthesis” Online References: https://archive.nptel.ac.in/content/storage2/courses///Digital%20Systems.pdf Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned PCC11CE04 Essential Psychomotor skills for engineers L T P L T P Total -- -- -- -- Examination Scheme Total Theory -- -- -- -- -- Lab -- -- Pre-requisite Course Codes Course Outcomes CO1 use skill of writing texts, labels, drawing perspective images and creating 3D objects with technical drawing fundamentals. CO2 build solid model of a given object using 3D modeling software. CO3 identify and rectify computer hardware and networking related issues CO4 perform soldering and de-soldering of discrete components on Universal PCB CO5 install, configure and operate system admin servers. Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs. Creative Art . Art of writing Cursive, Bold, Italic, Block (3D) lettering, Creating Designer Name-Plates, Labels, Visiting Cards [] . Introduction to Perspective Views, Iso-Scale and True Scale Isometrics, Construction of 3D regular blocks like Prism, Cylinder, Cut sections, Frustum (Card Paper model) using Development of Surface method. [] Introduction to solid modeling . Solid Modeling 3D Geometric modeling of an Engineering component, demonstrating modeling skills using commands like Extrude, Revolve, Sweep, Blend, Loft etc. [,] Computer hardware, networking and troubleshooting . Computer assembly and troubleshooting [] . IP address configuration, basic networking commands such as ping, netstat, traceroute, understand functionality of a network switch [,] . Implementation of LAN (- computers) using network switch [] . Identify and troubleshoot basic network problems using networking commands such as ping, netstat and traceroute [,] PCB making and soldering . Soldering and de-soldering practice on Universal PCB using discrete components. [,] . Implementation of a 3V power supply circuit (using transistors and Zener diode) on Universal PCB [] Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Types of servers and their usage . Configuration and working of web server, FTP server [,] . Configuration and working of NFS server, SSH server [,] . Configuration and working of a wireless access point [] Total Course Assessment: Lab: a. Assignment on Module for marks b. Assignment on Module for marks c. Group activity on (network troubleshooting) Module for marks a. Quiz on Module for marks b. Assignment (PCB implementation) on Module for marks c. Group activity on Module for marks Recommended References [] https://mixeeva-design.ru/media/content/the-art-of-calligraphy.pdf [] N.D. Bhatt, Machine Drawing, Chartor Publishing [] Alexander Bordino, Autodesk Inventor cookbook, Packt publishing [] https://bskillforum.bharatskills.gov.in/DashBoadUpload/Others-EBOOK- 28Oct2022131021.pdf [] https://rsydigitalworld.com/-useful-linux-networking-commands/ [] https://www.pearsonhighered.com/assets/samplechapter/////.pdf [] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CGeAauny2fc [] https://pcpl21.org/wp-content/uploads///-Troubleshooting-Tips-If-Your- Internet-Is-Connected-But-Not-Working.pdf [] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AimCNTzDlVo [] Schwartz, Mel, ed. Soldering: Understanding the basics. ASM International, . [] Hamilton, Charles. A guide to printed circuit board design. Elsevier, . [] https://www.circuits-diy.com/3v-1a-dc-supply-using-bd135--npn-transistor/ [] https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-the-apache-web- server- on-ubuntu-- [] https://itslinuxfoss.com/how-to-install-an-ftp-server-on-ubuntu--/ [] https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/service-nfs [] https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/ubuntu-linux-install-openssh-server/ [] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CEfUsyc2lwg Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned VSE11CE02 Creative Coding in Python L T P L T P Total -- -- -- -- Examination Scheme Total Lab -- -- Pre-requisite Course Codes Course Outcomes CO1 Demonstrate awareness of skills of 21st century engineer CO2 Demonstrate basic concepts of python programming. CO3 Identify, install and utilize python packages. CO4 Illustration of data analytics and data visualization using Python libraries CO5 Create GUI Applications using Python. CO6 Demonstrate creativity while implementing solution for a given problem using python Module No. Unit No. Topics 21st century skills Introduction and Importance of 21st Century skills, case studies of creativity in engineering, Creator Tool PictoBlox, Github Python Fundamentals: . Basic Data Types: Letter Counter App, Right Triangle Solver App, Multiplication Exponent Table Program . Lists: Grade Sorter App, Grocery List App, Basketball Roster Program . Dictionaries: Thesaurus App, Code Breakers App Decision Flow Control Statements . For Loops: Binary Hexadecimal Conversion App, Grade Point Average Calculator App . Conditionals: Voter Registration App, Rock, Paper, Scissors App . While Loops: Guess the Word App, PowerBall Simulation App Functions . Functions: Head to Head Tic-Tac-Toe App, Bank Deposit and Withdrawal Program . Classes: Casino Blackjack App Graphics and GUI . Turtle - Hirst Painting . Tkinter- Building a Password Manager GUI App. Python in Data Sciences for Beginner . NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib: Data Analysis and visualization of any data set (Stock market/healthcare/weather/Agriculture) Project Development using Python for various engineering domains like electronics, mechanical etc. Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Assessment: Lab: Recommended Books: . Yashvant Kanetkar, “Let us Python: Python is Future, Embrace it fast”, BPB Publications; 1st edition ( July ). . Dusty Phillips, “Python object-oriented Programming”, Second Edition PACKT Publisher, August . . John Grayson, “Python and Tkinter Programming”, Manning Publications ( March ). . Core Python Programming, Dr. R. Nageswara Rao, Dreamtech Press . Beginning Python: Using Python . and Python .. James Payne, Wrox publication . Introduction to computing and problem solving using python, E Balagurusamy, McGraw Hill Education Online Resources: . Python Documentation: https://docs.python.org// . "The Python Tutorial", http://docs.python.org/release/../tutorial/ . http://spoken-tutorial.org . Python Tkinter library Documentation: https://docs.python.org//library/tk.html . Numpy Documentation: https://numpy.org/doc/ . Pandas Documentation: https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/ . Matplotlib Documentation: https://matplotlib.org/../contents.html . Scipy Documentation : https://www.scipy.org/docs.html . Machine Learning Algorithm Documentation: https://scikit-learn.org/stable/ . https://nptel.ac.in/courses//// . NPTEL course: “The Joy of Computing using Python” Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned IKS11CE01 Indian Knowledge System L T P L T P Total -- -- -- -- Examination Scheme Total Theory -- -- Lab -- -- -- -- -- Pre-requisite Course Codes -- Course Outcomes CO1 Enumerate the main characteristics of education system in Vedic and post Vedic period to enrich the intellectual imagination CO2 Review the ancient discovery and research in Indian number system and ancient Indian mathematics CO3 Review the contribution from Ancient Indian system to astronomy and metallurgy CO4 Trace the significant developments in Indian engineering and technology in Irrigation, painting, surgical techniques and shipbuilding CO5 Cultivate a deep sense of identity and pride in enriched scientific Indian heritage Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs. . What is Indian Knowledge System (IKS)? Why do we need it? Salient aspects of IKS. . The Vedic Corpus: Introduction to Vedas, Sub-classification of Vedas, Messages in Vedas, Vedic Life: A Distinctive Features . Number systems in India, Measurements for time, distance, and weight, Bhūta-Saṃkhyā system, Kaṭapayādi system, Piṅgala and the Binary system . Unique aspects of Indian Mathematics, Indian Mathematicians and their Contributions, Algebra, Geometry and Trigonometry . Indian contributions in astronomy, The celestial coordinate system, Elements of the Indian calendar, Notion of years and months, Indian Astronomical Instruments . Wootz Steel, Mining and ore extraction, Metals and Metalworking Technology, Iron and steel in India, Lost wax casting of idols and artefacts, Apparatuses used for extraction of metallic components . Irrigation systems and practices in South India, Dyes and painting technology, Surgical techniques, Shipbuilding . Temple architecture in India, Perspective of Arthaśāstra on town planning. Total Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Assessment: Recommended Books: [] B Mahadevan, Vinayak Rajat Bhat, Nagendra Pavana R. N., “Introduction to Indian Knowledge System: Concepts and Applications” PHI, [] Kapil Kapoor, Avadhesh K. Singh, “Indian Knowledge Systems, Volume ”, Indian Institute of Advanced Study, [] R. P. Kulkarni, “Glimpses of India Engineering and Technology: Ancient and Medieval Period,” Munshiram Manoharlal Publishers Pvt. Ltd., Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Course Code Course Name Teaching Scheme (Hrs/week) Credits Assigned HMM11CE01 Introduction to Emerging Technologies L T P L T P Total -- -- -- -- Examination Scheme Total Theory (% weightage) Lab -- -- -- -- -- Pre-requisite Course Codes -- Course Outcomes CO1 Recognize the dynamic nature of emerging technologies and their evolving landscape. CO2 Demonstrate knowledge of the key characteristics and potential applications of emerging technologies. CO3 Identify the value, innovative solutions or applications for real-world challenges using emerging technologies CO4 Analyze the implications of emerging technologies on society, business, and various industries CO5 Identify various emerging technologies relevant to his/her discipline for personal and professional growth CO6 Recognize the need for continuous learning to keep pace with technological advancements. Module No. Unit No. Topics Ref. Hrs. . Introduction to Industrial Revolution, Important Inventions during various Industrial Revolutions (IR). , . Role of data, Enabling devices, Network and Human to Machine Interaction during IR , . Data Science: Overview of data science, Data Science Life Cycle, Cloud Computing with examples of available Clouds, Big Data, Big data Life Cycle with Hadoop , . Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning: Philosophy of AI, Components of AI, Important terminologies, AI Problem Solving, Real World AI, Types of Machine Learning, Neural Networks, Applications: Computer Vision, Robotics, NLP. Societal Implications of AI. , . Fundamentals of Blockchain, Blockchain applications and architecture. Introduction to Cyber Security, Cyber attacks and defenses. Case studies. , . Robotic Process Automation, RPA Tools and Applications . Internet of Things (IoT): Introduction, IoT Sensors, IoT Data acquisition & platforms, IoT Data Communication, IoT data storage and Retrieval, IoT data analytics & visualization and IoT , Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) Security, IoT Product Development Life Cycle, Industrial IoT, Concept of Edge Computing. Case studies . Introduction to Immersive Technologies (AR, VR and MR), AR /VR systems with IOT, AI and Haptics, Tools needed to build AR Apps, usecases, Human Centric UX design . Semiconductor and Nanotechnology: Evolution of Semiconductor Industry, Trends and Innovations in Semiconductor Technologies with respect to material, devices, circuits, architecture and applications. Indian Semiconductor Industry: present status, market trends, challenges, policy initiatives by GoI . Digital Manufacturing, Principles of 3D Printing, Classification and material used in 3D printing, software tools and applications to various fields. Introduction to Robotics, Drones and Autonomous Systems. Fundamentals of tools, software and hardware required to build robot and autonomous systems. Applications and Case studies. , . Other Trends in emerging technologies: 5G telecom networks and Electric Vehicles Total Course Assessment: Theory: Activity: Group Discussion on applications, benefits, effects of emerging technologies: Learning Outcome: PO6: Engineer and Society CO4: Analyze the implications of emerging technologies on society, business, and various industries Industry Skill: Critical Thinking Learning Outcome: PO12: Life Long Learning CO6: Recognize the need for continuous learning to keep pace with technological advancements. CO5: Identify various emerging technologies relevant to his/her discipline for personal and professional growth Recommended Books: Society of St. Francis Xavier, Pilar’s Fr. Conceicao Rodrigues College of Engineering Fr. Agnel Ashram, Bandstand, Bandra (W), Mumbai – (Autonomous College affiliated to University of Mumbai) [] Vasudha Tiwari. Sunil Kumar Chaudhary and Iqbal Ahmed Khan, “Emerging Technology For Engineers”, Vayu Education of India, 1st Edition. [] Chanagala Shankar, “Emerging Technologies”, Bluerose Publishers Pvt. Ltd, 1st Edition [] Chandradev Yadav, “The Evolution of Immersive Technologies: A Journey into the Extraordinary”, 1st Edition [] Website of India Semiconductor Mission (https://ism.gov.in/) [] SWAYAM course on ‘An Introduction to Artificial Intelligence’ [] Other relevant online resources to be used.